---
title: Day of .NET
date: 2005-05-02
---
The [Chicago .NET Users Group](http://www.cnug.org/Default.aspx) put
together [A Day of .NET
Conference](http://www.cnug.org/Default.aspx?tabid=33) that took place
over the weekend.  It seems to be similar to the Code Camps that I keep
hearing about.  Overall, I have to say I was pleasantly surprised by the
quality of the event and the turnout was better than I expected. (I
jokingly asked [Brian Scott](http://blogs.geekdojo.net/brian) on the
way in to the building "How many people you think will be here?", "6. 
At most.")  The turnout looked to be at least 150 people. (I'm a pretty
bad judge of group sizes, but it had to be at least 150)

The tracks for the event seemed to be based around similar topics: Team
System and Visual Studio 2005, Office Integration, General Code Talks,
and Server Side Development.  My day started with a great talk on Code
Generation by [Keenan
Newton](http://www.dotnetjunkies.com/weblog/knewton).  He went over the
pro's and con's of code generation and dug into the CodeDom a bit. 
Next I went over to see a talk by Chris
"Developer-evangelist-without-a-blog" Mayo on ClickOnce.  Chris has a
reputation for being a great presenter and he backed that reputation up
with another great one.  His presentation definitely covered a lot of
the questions I had lurking about ClickOnce.  (I'm hoping to get the
slides so I can pitch it at the office.)  After Chris's presentation I
took a little break for lunch and chit chatted with
[Brian](http://blogs.geekdojo.net/brian) about various things (including
his work, [CoolSavings](http://www.coolsavings.com/)).  After the free
sack lunch (Turkey.  Yum.), I ventured over to [Keith
Franklin](http://blog.magenic.com/keithf/)'s talk on TDD with Visual
Studio.NET 2005.  Apparently, Keith forgot to pray to the demo gods. 
His VS.NET blew up quite spectacularly during his talk.  He was able to
overcome that minor set-back and plow forward though. 

After seeing his talk however, I'm a little disappointed in the TDD
tooling that is included with VS.NET 2005.  I've become quite accustomed
to
[TestDriven.NET](http://www.testdriven.net/Default.aspx?ReferrerId=3937) and
the frictionless Code-\>Test-\>Refactor workflow it has given me.  As
I'm writing a test, I just right-click, Run Test and Bam!  I know if it
works.  In VS.NET 2005 however, it seems like there are a lot of hoops
you have to jump through just to run a single test.  First pull up all
of tests in your project.  Then find the test that you want to run. 
Check it off.  Click the run tests button.  Wait for your tests to run. 
Then double-click your test in the test window to view the results. 
Seems like a lot of work.

After Keith's talk, I hung around to see [Dave
Bost](http://davebost.com/blog/)'s talk on the Visual Studio Designers. 
After watching his presentation, it became pretty obvious to me that I
will probably not be using the Team System Architect designers.  Way to
complicated for the type of work I do.  Very neat, but my apps aren't
distributed "enough" to make the designers appealing.

For the last talk of the day I saw Compact Framework 2.0 by Derek
Ferguson.  Overall it was a good presentation.  A little light on the
code, and heavy on the concepts which is okay, but I was expecting to
see a kick butt app.

All in all, I tip my cap to the CNUG guys for creating a really great
one day conference.  Especially since it was no cost to the attendees. 
I'm definitely going to be going again.
