---
title: "Business value"
date: 2008-11-09
---
Anybody that has worked with me knows that I tend to be an early adopter
of technology.  I love playing with Beta, Alpha, CTP and "Here is my bin
folder" builds. But sometimes as an early adopter I run into trouble. 
Not the kind of "This build borked my machine" types of trouble, but
more along the lines of "Boy this is neat but what value does it give
me?" kind of trouble.  If I can't find the business value in a piece of
code or new technology it's nothing more than a geeky toy.

As a developer it's our job not to just write really awesome code, but
to make sure that code adds value to the core business.  Sometimes I
struggle with that.  When I'm adding some lame excel exporting feature
instead of playing with Aspect Oriented Programming or when I'm fixing
some edge case bug instead of doing some crazy Meta-Programming I have
to remind myself that the things I am doing are increasing productivity
in some other part of the business.

Sometimes though, we need to take a step back and look at those new
technologies (I just came back from PDC so my brain is FILLED with new
stuff).  Do these new technologies increase business value?  How-so? 
Sometimes the question is easy enough to answer (Windows will crash
less), other times it's harder (Oslo will help you create textual
DSLs).  Whenever I'm in this position, the first thing I do is play with
the technology.  How long is taking me to understand it?  Is it lowering
the amount of code that I have to write, or just moving it around (C\#
to Xml configuration)? Is it lowering the amount of friction in my
day-to-day life?  Once I can answer those questions I can move forward
and confidently promote new technologies to the business (or not as the
case may be).

When you start to think of terms of business value interesting changes
start to take place.  When you are what feels like a death march project
you start to ask around.  What value are we providing?  Who needs this
software?  What is this application going to do for them day-to-day? Are
we really making work easier?  The answer to those questions will either
motivate you because you know you are providing value, or the questions
start to float up the chain of command and project goals start to get
re-aligned.  There have been a few projects in my life that as
stake-holders and priorities changed no one was really sure why the
application was being built.  Asking questions has helped to get those
projects back on the right tracks.

In the end, my point is simply that when you are implementing a new
feature, fixing a bug or working with brand new technology try to keep
your focus on business value and not what shiny new toys you want to
play with.
